# Themeing

> **Disclaimer:** Themeing in Concertus is currently in an experimental stage. This document will reflect the most recent changes to the themeing engine, as well as the latest specification.

Current specification: 0.1b

### Hot keys

The theme menu can be accessed via the `Ctrl`+`c` keymap. This will hot
reload all themes, no need to reboot when making changes to a theme. Themes can
also be cycled through via the `Shift`+`<` and `Shift`+`>` keys. (These will
not be hot reloaded).

### Theme Folder Location & Formatting

Themes should be placed in the $CONFIG/concertus/themes folder. This folder
will be autogenerated after running concertus for the first time. 

Any number of themes can be placed into the folder, there is no limit. Should a
theme fail to follow the specification (i.e. has missing fields, contains
typos, fail to comply with the TOML parser, etc.) the theme will not be
accessible to the user in the program.

Themes must contain a name. They may share the same names but this may
potentially lead to inconsistent behavior and difficulty differentiating themes
from within the theme menu. It is strongly recommended that users not duplicate
names.

Here is an example of a transparent theme:

```Toml 
# Theme version 0.1b
name = "Transparent Example"

[colors]
# Background colors
bg_focused = ""
bg_unfocused = ""
bg_progress = ""

# Text colors
text_focused = "#D2D2D2"
text_unfocused = "#646464"
text_secondary = "#FF4646"
text_secondary_u = "#B41E1E"
text_highlight = "#000000"

# Selection color
highlight = "#DCDC64"
highlight_u = "#82823C"

# Border colors
border_focused = "#DCDC64"
border_unfocused = "#646464"

# Progress bar colors
progress_complete = "#FF4646"
progress_incomplete = "#646464"

[borders]
# Options: all, none
border_display = "all"

# Options: plain, rounded, double, thick
border_type = "rounded"
```

### Acceptable Color Formats

Colors can be formatted in rgb, hex, or as generic color names. E.g. "red",
"light-blue". All inputs are case insensitive. For those who wish to utilize
transparency, simply leave the quotes empty or write "none" with the quotation
marks. (Certain elements may not be able to be rendered as transparent. Your
terminal may also play a role in what can/cannot be transparent.)

```TOML
# Valid Colors
text_focused = "#FF4646"
text_secondary =  "rgb(132, 132, 55)"
border_unfocused = "grey"
bg_global = ""

# Invalid Colors
text_focused = "FF4646"
text_secondary = "(132, 132, 55)"
```

Users can create a borderless experience by setting the colors of the borders
to the same values as the respective background panel colors. This will **not**
work with transparent backgrounds. 

